welcome to the flower school video
library I'm Lea Ann Kessler director of
the floral design Institute and I'm here
to share with you the intricacies of bow
tying you know as florists bow tying can
be the curse of our existence it's hard
to do it makes your finger sore ribbon
can be so expensive and there's not much
more boring than to sit and create
hundreds of bows in preparation for a
holiday
bow tying can be fun and easy it doesn't
have to be something you'd read each and
every day
it just takes mastering a few simple
techniques and then practice to achieve
muscle memory if that's the trick it
does take practice
Boateng is one of those skills that
doesn't get better gradually it's bad
bad bad perfect that's because your
fingers finally get used to the
patterning when you're practicing and
the more you concentrate the worse that
gets then all of a sudden through the
magic of muscle memory your bows will be
perfect so if you've always struggled
and dreamed of a better way watch this
video I think you'll find it surprising
how easy bow tying can be
let's start with the basics ribbons come
in a number of sizes from the very
smallest of spaghetti through larger
hundred and then everything in between
one and a half three five nine sixteen
forty yes you've got to learn the
numbers then it also comes in a
different array of materials the
standard Flores acetate we use over and
over because very cost-effective then of
course we love the double-sided satin
because it has much more wonderful feel
to it then there's interesting materials
we have beaded ribbons eyelash ribbon
even feathered ribbon so many different
things to choose from
today I want to share with you the
traditional one-two-three florist vow in
future demonstrations we'll look at
variations the tailored tie the pleated
multiple textures and a fun quickie
version that's perfect for holiday
preparations
the standard one-two-three bow can be
done with almost any type of ribbon but
most common would be the traditional
florists acetate to begin pull off a
couple of yards of ribbon so you're not
locked too closely to the bolt it'll be
easier for you and then notice that it
has a shiny side and a matte side to
begin you're going to take and make a
loop to loop around your thumb just like
so kind of like a rollercoaster looping
around and the shiny side is facing up
and your fingers are held with two
fingers and a thumb so the patterning is
sort of like when you flute a pie crust
so it's a loop around your thumb two
fingers and then twist so that each side
stays shiny so I've got shiny a shiny
loop and shiny
the loop-de-loop makes your Center and
now you're ready to move on and add your
sides loop to the back and under your
top finger then lift your bottom finger
and give it a sharp twist and set the
bottom finger back down and then you
repeat that but this time when you come
up lift your bottom lift your top twist
by twisting you're always keeping the
shiny side facing you you repeat that
one more time to the back lift the
bottom twist set it back down by doing
two fingers and your thumb it allows you
to keep control of what you want to do
next is three more loops that are
slightly larger so one twist one on the
other side twist and the second one and
notice I lift one finger then lift the
other bring it down second one on the
opposite side twist now I go to the
third loop under the top finger lift and
down and then twist
once you have your one the center loop
the two the first two smaller loops and
the three the slightly larger you're
ready to cut it off from the bolt of
ribbon and go ahead and secure it I use
a 22 gauge wire and you just slide it
right through that Center loop and under
your thumb and then bend it straight
down and twist make sure you twist very
securely that's what holds the whole bow
together then you can reach in and fluff
by sliding your fingers inside the loop
to get a beautiful love
now it's your turn find some inexpensive
ribbon and get practicing too hints that
will help you along one don't forget the
two fingers and a thumb that patterning
is very very important and second
remember to always keep the shiny side
facing you with those two techniques and
lots of practice you'll master the 1 2 3
bow you have any problems or questions
don't hesitate to contact me you can
reach us through our website flower
school comm or of course you can always
reach me directly at my own email Lian
le a in in e @ floral design Institute
calm and phone call 808 one nine eight
zero eight nine yes I'm always available
I'm here to help you need bow time
basics get a hold of me I'll be happy to
help so now it's your turn have fun and
do something you love with ribbon